# COLING 2025 synthetic jjes

This repository contains the dataset used for the "Enhancing Discourse Parsing for Local Structures from Social Media with LLM-Generated Data" COLING 2025 main conference paper.
The dataset contains 1,170 local RST discourse structures, including 900 synthetic examples and 270 gold examples. These examples cover three social media platforms: online news comment sections (from the Globe and Mail Canadadian newspaper website), a discussion forum (Reddit), and a social media messaging platform (Twitter).

The particular RST discourse structur consists of the arrangement of JOINT JOINT EVALUATION (JJE) coherence relations, which mimics a logical-argumentative flow by presenting a series of implicitly related statements, leading to a climactic statement.

This repo can be used to reproduce the results obtained the paper. It can also be used to further study JJE structures or polarization phenomena on social media.

## Dataset Information

|                        | not JJE | JJE |
|------------------------|-----|-----|
| **Original gold Instances** | 180 | 270 |
| **Instances for Synthetic Data Generation** | -   | 90  |
| **Generated Synthetic Data for Training** | -   | 900 |
| **Test Set Instances** | 180 | 180 |

*Table 1: Summary of Dataset and Synthetic Data Generation.*


## Citations:

If you use this repository or the data generated by it in your research, please cite the following paper:

```bibtex
@inproceedings{pastor-etal-2025-enhancing,
    title = "Enhancing Discourse Parsing for Local Structures from Social Media with {LLM}-Generated Data",
    author = "Pastor, Martial  and
      Oostdijk, Nelleke  and
      Martin-Rodilla, Patricia  and
      Parapar, Javier",
    editor = "Rambow, Owen  and
      Wanner, Leo  and
      Apidianaki, Marianna  and
      Al-Khalifa, Hend  and
      Eugenio, Barbara Di  and
      Schockaert, Steven",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 31st International Conference on Computational Linguistics",
    month = jan,
    year = "2025",
    address = "Abu Dhabi, UAE",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2025.coling-main.584/",
    pages = "8739--8748",
    abstract = "We explore the use of discourse parsers for extracting a particular discourse structure in a real-world social media scenario. Specifically, we focus on enhancing parser performance through the integration of synthetic data generated by large language models (LLMs). We conduct experiments using a newly developed dataset of 1,170 local RST discourse structures, including 900 synthetic and 270 gold examples, covering three social media platforms: online news comments sections, a discussion forum (Reddit), and a social media messaging platform (Twitter). Our primary goal is to assess the impact of LLM-generated synthetic training data on parser performance in a raw text setting without pre-identified discourse units. While both top-down and bottom-up RST architectures greatly benefit from synthetic data, challenges remain in classifying evaluative discourse structures."
}
